Faculty – Undergraduate Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program Dr. Stephanie White Chair, Undergraduate Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program Professor, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology Dr. Stephanie Leal Vice Chair, Undergraduate Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program Assistant Professor, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology Dr. Catherine Cahill Professor in Residence, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Associate Dean, Graduate Division Dr. Stephen Cannon Professor and Chair, Department of Physiology Dr. Ellen Carpenter Emeritus Professor in Residence, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Dr. Scott Chandler Emeritus Professor, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology Dr. Christopher Colwell Professor in Residence, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Dr. Kacie Deters Assistant Professor, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology Dr. Elena Dominguez Lecturer, Undergraduate Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program Dr. Christopher Evans Professor in Residence, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Dr. Weihong Ge Adjunct Associate Professor; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Dr. Cristina Ghiani Adjunct Professor, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Adjunct Professor, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Dr. David Glanzman Distinguished Professor, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology/Neurobiology Dr. Carlos Grijalva Professor Emeritus, Department of Psychology Dr. William Grisham Academic Coordinator/Adjunct Professor, Department of Psychology Dr. Sherrel Howard Associate Professor Emeritus, Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology Dr. Barbara Knowlton Professor and Vice Chair for Undergraduate Studies, Department of Psychology Dr. Harley Kornblum Professor in Residence, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Dr. David Krantz Professor in Residence, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Dr. Janel Le Belle Associate Adjunct Professor, Department of Neurosurgery Dr. Michael Levine Distinguished Professor, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences ​Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Personnel Dr. Edythe London Professor in Residence, Departments of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences/​Molecular and Medical Pharmacology Dr. Thomas O’Dell Professor and Executive Vice Chair, ​Department of Physiology Dr. Ketema Paul Professor, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology Dr. Patricia Phelps Professor and Vice Chair, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology Dr. Natik Piri Professor, Department of Ophthalmology Dr. Gina Poe Professor, Department of Integrative Biology & Physiology Director, Brain Research Institute Dr. Mayumi Prins Professor in Residence, Department of Neurosurgery Dr. Jesse Rissman Professor, Department of Psychology Dr. Rafael Romero Associate Director, Undergraduate Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program Dr. Felix Schweizer Professor, Department of Neurobiology Chair, Interdepartmental PhD Program for Neuroscience Dr. Joshua Trachtenberg Professor, Department of Neurobiology Dr. Jeremy Trott Lecturer, Department of Psychology Dr. James Waschek Professor in Residence, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Dr. Kate Wassum Professor, Department of Psychology Dr. Joseph Watson Professor, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences & Associate Dean, Graduate Division of the College of Letters and Science