Natik Piri | Bruinwalk Home Search Natik Piri All Reviews Professor Natik Piri AD 3.5 Overall Ratings Based on 27 Users Easiness 2.3 / 5 How easy the class is, 1 being extremely difficult and 5 being easy peasy. Workload 2.5 / 5 How light the workload is, 1 being extremely heavy and 5 being extremely light. Clarity 3.0 / 5 How clear the professor is, 1 being extremely unclear and 5 being very clear. Helpfulness 3.2 / 5 How helpful the professor is, 1 being not helpful at all and 5 being extremely helpful. Reviews (27) 1 of 2 1 of 2 Add your review... NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Dec. 15, 2020 Quarter: Fall 2020 Grade: B He is so smart and expects everyone to be at his level and that makes his lectures hard to understand. This professor was the most understanding Neuroscience professor ever. His exam was fair, and his quizzes were clear. The biggest reason for this review is to emphasize that he was the only understanding Neuro professor during this pandemic. God bless his kind soul. Read the book, take good notes and you'll be fine for his module. Helpful? 2 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. March 14, 2022 Quarter: Fall 2021 Grade: A This is a joint review for 101A, for which I had White, Chandler, and Piri. The class is structured such to have 3 exams worth 25% each (non-cumulative) & quizzes/discussion attendance worth the remaining 25%. Simple stuff really. Now, as for whether I liked the class....I don't know. Seriously. Some days, learning about neurological electrophysiology and how the senses work would be extremely fascinating, and other days, mostly learning about reflexes, would make the 2-hour class feel like it was going on for half a day. To be said, I was a neuroscience major coming in and then bumped that down to a neuroscience minor coming out - make of that what you will. The thing is, the entire neuroscience 101 series is exceptionally pedantic. On exams, one needs to use the proper verbiage each time, be thorough, answer the question and supply a bit more to make sure that you've got it right, and then you might...might get full credit on an essay question. Helpful? 1 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Dec. 17, 2021 Quarter: Fall 2021 Grade: A Piri's module would be considered by most the "easier" of the three, however, I had the hardest time during his exam. Though they were 40 multiple choice it was slightly tricky wording and I don't think his lectures did a good job at covering the material that would be covered on the exam. I would highly recommend reading the textbook and taking notes from there rather than relying fully on lecture. There were details on the exam that were barely mentioned in lecture so when it came up it was confusing. It is incredibly evident that Piri is very intelligent, however, he was not the best lecturer when conveying some of his points. Though his material was fairly interesting and pretty straight forward I would say this was my least favorite module because of the way the lectures went. The mean was a 77 and the median was a 82.5 so it was slightly lower than both of the previous modules. Helpful? 1 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Dec. 13, 2021 Quarter: Fall 2021 Grade: A He has very dense/detailed lectures about the sensory systems that can be a drag to get through sometimes even though I did find it very interesting. On the bright side, if you take really good notes and just skim along in the textbook, his 40 MC test is quite straightforward. I wouldn't say easy bc the mean was a 78 and media was 82.5, but reading the questions AND answer choices carefully (some times he can be tricky) is a must to succeed. Otherwise he's extremely nice and helpful and has a much better testing experience than Chandler and White. Helpful? 1 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Dec. 23, 2020 Quarter: Fall 2020 Grade: A Piri is a sweet, little angel. He's basically god's apology for the rest of this class. Even as we were taking our test he wanted to give us extra time and made jokes, and I love him. His module has the most material but is very easy to understand. It's basically a stream of arbitrary facts and he follows the book extremely closely. He's hard to understand and throws in lots of technical words that none of us know. However, the man is so understanding and helpful via email and office hours. He made his module exam 40 MC in about 70 minutes for us when he heard we didn't feel up to free-response. He held a review where he went slide-by-slide and answered everyone's questions. I ended up getting a 100/100 on his exam purely by taking really good book notes. For comparison, I got an A on Chandler's, and a B with the 10 point adjustment on White's. Overall I think the modules went like this for me Interesting material: Chandler> Piri> White Easiest material: Piri> White> Chandler Nicest prof: Piri> Chandler=White Tests: Piri> Chandler> White Prepares you for the test: Chandler> Piri> White Overall module: Piri>Chandler> White Helpful? 2 1 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Dec. 7, 2020 Quarter: Fall 2020 Grade: A- Slides are absolutely horrible. And these are combined with the lectures that are incredibly difficult to understand for many reasons. Helpful? 1 2 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Jan. 27, 2011 Quarter: N/A Grade: N/A This guy was awful. He talked in a low monotone throughout the entire lecture, and I realized going to class was not time well spent. He provides you with a reader, and also relies heavily on the book, so I would personally recommend using your class time for THAT instead of wasting 2 hours trying not to doze off. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Feb. 22, 2009 Quarter: N/A Grade: N/A Dr. Piri taught the third of three modules in our Neuroscience M101A Fall 2008 class. Not many people show up at lecture, and many of those who do often fall asleep. Including me. BUT I have to say that among the three modules, I loved his the best. He is very fair and clear-cut as to his requirements: he wants you to read the textbook. Everything is in the textbook. You will surely do very well if that's how you study. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Jan. 2, 2025 Quarter: Fall 2024 Grade: A+ In fall 2024, Neuroscience M101A was split into three modules: Dr. Felix Schweizer (Module 1 Electrophysiology), Dr. Stephanie White (Module 2 Motor Systems), Dr. Natik Piri (Module 3 Sensory Systems). This review will talk about the class in general and each professor. Overall, this class did not feel too bad, especially considering the reputation it has amongst neuroscience students. In fall 2024, all the exams were open book and open note, which likely contributed to the class feeling much easier than years past. The exams were all on Canvas with live proctoring over Zoom. Each professor wrote the exam for their module, and the exams were not cumulative, but rather essentially 3 distinct tests for the three modules. Class Logistics: The class was out of 100 points. Each module had an exam which was worth 20 points, so a total of 60 points across the three exams. There were 9 quizzes (3 points each) in the weekly discussion section, of which the 7 best scores were kept, so 21 points there. There was 4 points awarded for participation and attendance in discussion sections. The final 15 points was for short one-page summary writeups from two clinical correlation lectures with UCLA MDs and one neuroscience seminar that we had to attend independently anytime during the quarter. There was no extra credit offered in this class, and no curves on any of the exams or the course overall. Module 1 Electrophysiology by Felix Schweizer: Dr. Schweizer's module was all about electrophysiology, membrane potentials, and ion channels. He is an incredibly sweet and caring professor, taking time during lecture and office hours to provide extensive answers to any and all student questions. Dr. Schweizer does tend to ramble and stray on tangents for a while, so sometimes his lectures are quite confusing. Additionally, there is not much text on his slides, but rather only pictures/graphs, so understanding and writing down what he is saying is crucial. His exam wasn't terrible; it did have the lowest average of the three, though. It was mainly short-answer questions with a few select all that apply multiple choice questions as well. For Schweizer's exam, having a strong conceptual understanding of the material is crucial; most of his questions were not something that was found word-for-word on the slides, but rather relied on a true understanding of his material. Average on his exam was an 82% (16.37/20). Module 2 Motor Systems by Stephanie White: Dr. White's module was all about motor systems and motor control, from lower motor neurons and upper motor neurons to the basal ganglia and cerebellum. Dr. White was an incredibly clear lecturer, and her slides were the most helpful and informative of the three professors. There were a lot of basal ganglia and cerebellum pathways to know, but since our year was open note, this was much easier since memorization was not required. Dr. White was very helpful in office hours as well. Her exam felt alright and was mostly multiple choice, but there were a lot of ambiguous questions, and many of the questions were not directly covered in lecture but rather required critical thinking and interpretation. Average on her exam was an 85% (17/20). Module 3 Sensory Systems by Natik Piri: Dr. Piri's module was all about sensory systems, like hearing, taste, touch, smell, pain, but mostly on vision since his research focuses on ophthalmology. Dr. Piri was an incredibly clear and helpful professor; his slides were mainly all images, but he was so clear while explaining that if you take quality notes, you will succeed on his exam. Watching the lecture recordings for Dr. Piri's lectures is also very beneficial to catch all the details. I would say that Dr. Piri's module is the most dense; there are a lot of sensory transduction pathways to understand, especially for vision. Granted since our exams were open note, it was significantly easier, as we only had to understand how the pathway worked and not actually memorize the entire pathway itself. Dr. Piri's exam felt the easiest and most straightforward of the three professors; most of the answers could be found directly in the lecture slides, and not much conceptual/critical thinking was needed to succeed in his exam. Average on his exam was a 91% (18.16/20). Overall, while many say and hear horrors about this class, I thought it wasn't that bad at all, probably because of the online, open-note exams. I think this class was definitely much easier than Neuroscience 102. Grading wise, the averages for each exam are listed above, and most people had a 40/40 (or very close to full marks) on the non-exam points of this class, i.e. the quizzes, participation, and seminar/clinical correlation writeups. Therefore, the average score on this class if we do (16.37 + 17 + 18.16 + 40) = 91.5, which is an A-. A- average for NEUROSC M101A, an upper-division core neuroscience class does not seem bad at all. Moreover, the medians for each exam was approximately 0.5% above the average/mean, so if we consider the median grade of the class, it is likely right around 93%, which is the cutoff for an A. How nice! However, last year (fall 2023)'s distributions were much lower, likely because 2023's exams were in person without any notes, so the online open-note exams definitely did make the 2024 class much easier. Schweizer's module was the most conceptually rigorous, while Piri's module was the most dense with information and pathways to memorize/understand. White's module was a healthy balance of conceptual understanding and pathway memorization. Overall, this class was a uniquely enjoyable experience of essentially 3 three-week long mini-classes, each taught on a different topic by a professor who does research and is an expert in their field of lecture. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Jan. 11, 2014 Quarter: N/A Grade: N/A He teaches the 3rd module of 101A. He gives a lot of material but his exams is quite straight forward if you know everything. His lectures are a bit boring though and hard to keep listening for two hours. He follows the book quite well however. So that's good. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Quarter: Fall 2020 Grade: B Dec. 15, 2020 He is so smart and expects everyone to be at his level and that makes his lectures hard to understand. This professor was the most understanding Neuroscience professor ever. His exam was fair, and his quizzes were clear. The biggest reason for this review is to emphasize that he was the only understanding Neuro professor during this pandemic. God bless his kind soul. Read the book, take good notes and you'll be fine for his module. Helpful? 2 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Quarter: Fall 2021 Grade: A March 14, 2022 This is a joint review for 101A, for which I had White, Chandler, and Piri. The class is structured such to have 3 exams worth 25% each (non-cumulative) & quizzes/discussion attendance worth the remaining 25%. Simple stuff really. Now, as for whether I liked the class....I don't know. Seriously. Some days, learning about neurological electrophysiology and how the senses work would be extremely fascinating, and other days, mostly learning about reflexes, would make the 2-hour class feel like it was going on for half a day. To be said, I was a neuroscience major coming in and then bumped that down to a neuroscience minor coming out - make of that what you will. The thing is, the entire neuroscience 101 series is exceptionally pedantic. On exams, one needs to use the proper verbiage each time, be thorough, answer the question and supply a bit more to make sure that you've got it right, and then you might...might get full credit on an essay question. Helpful? 1 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Quarter: Fall 2021 Grade: A Dec. 17, 2021 Piri's module would be considered by most the "easier" of the three, however, I had the hardest time during his exam. Though they were 40 multiple choice it was slightly tricky wording and I don't think his lectures did a good job at covering the material that would be covered on the exam. I would highly recommend reading the textbook and taking notes from there rather than relying fully on lecture. There were details on the exam that were barely mentioned in lecture so when it came up it was confusing. It is incredibly evident that Piri is very intelligent, however, he was not the best lecturer when conveying some of his points. Though his material was fairly interesting and pretty straight forward I would say this was my least favorite module because of the way the lectures went. The mean was a 77 and the median was a 82.5 so it was slightly lower than both of the previous modules. Helpful? 1 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Quarter: Fall 2021 Grade: A Dec. 13, 2021 He has very dense/detailed lectures about the sensory systems that can be a drag to get through sometimes even though I did find it very interesting. On the bright side, if you take really good notes and just skim along in the textbook, his 40 MC test is quite straightforward. I wouldn't say easy bc the mean was a 78 and media was 82.5, but reading the questions AND answer choices carefully (some times he can be tricky) is a must to succeed. Otherwise he's extremely nice and helpful and has a much better testing experience than Chandler and White. Helpful? 1 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Quarter: Fall 2020 Grade: A Dec. 23, 2020 Piri is a sweet, little angel. He's basically god's apology for the rest of this class. Even as we were taking our test he wanted to give us extra time and made jokes, and I love him. His module has the most material but is very easy to understand. It's basically a stream of arbitrary facts and he follows the book extremely closely. He's hard to understand and throws in lots of technical words that none of us know. However, the man is so understanding and helpful via email and office hours. He made his module exam 40 MC in about 70 minutes for us when he heard we didn't feel up to free-response. He held a review where he went slide-by-slide and answered everyone's questions. I ended up getting a 100/100 on his exam purely by taking really good book notes. For comparison, I got an A on Chandler's, and a B with the 10 point adjustment on White's. Overall I think the modules went like this for me Interesting material: Chandler> Piri> White Easiest material: Piri> White> Chandler Nicest prof: Piri> Chandler=White Tests: Piri> Chandler> White Prepares you for the test: Chandler> Piri> White Overall module: Piri>Chandler> White Helpful? 2 1 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A COVID-19 This review was submitted during the COVID-19 pandemic. Your experience may vary. Quarter: Fall 2020 Grade: A- Dec. 7, 2020 Slides are absolutely horrible. And these are combined with the lectures that are incredibly difficult to understand for many reasons. Helpful? 1 2 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Quarter: N/A Grade: N/A Jan. 27, 2011 This guy was awful. He talked in a low monotone throughout the entire lecture, and I realized going to class was not time well spent. He provides you with a reader, and also relies heavily on the book, so I would personally recommend using your class time for THAT instead of wasting 2 hours trying not to doze off. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Quarter: N/A Grade: N/A Feb. 22, 2009 Dr. Piri taught the third of three modules in our Neuroscience M101A Fall 2008 class. Not many people show up at lecture, and many of those who do often fall asleep. Including me. BUT I have to say that among the three modules, I loved his the best. He is very fair and clear-cut as to his requirements: he wants you to read the textbook. Everything is in the textbook. You will surely do very well if that's how you study. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Quarter: Fall 2024 Grade: A+ Jan. 2, 2025 In fall 2024, Neuroscience M101A was split into three modules: Dr. Felix Schweizer (Module 1 Electrophysiology), Dr. Stephanie White (Module 2 Motor Systems), Dr. Natik Piri (Module 3 Sensory Systems). This review will talk about the class in general and each professor. Overall, this class did not feel too bad, especially considering the reputation it has amongst neuroscience students. In fall 2024, all the exams were open book and open note, which likely contributed to the class feeling much easier than years past. The exams were all on Canvas with live proctoring over Zoom. Each professor wrote the exam for their module, and the exams were not cumulative, but rather essentially 3 distinct tests for the three modules. Class Logistics: The class was out of 100 points. Each module had an exam which was worth 20 points, so a total of 60 points across the three exams. There were 9 quizzes (3 points each) in the weekly discussion section, of which the 7 best scores were kept, so 21 points there. There was 4 points awarded for participation and attendance in discussion sections. The final 15 points was for short one-page summary writeups from two clinical correlation lectures with UCLA MDs and one neuroscience seminar that we had to attend independently anytime during the quarter. There was no extra credit offered in this class, and no curves on any of the exams or the course overall. Module 1 Electrophysiology by Felix Schweizer: Dr. Schweizer's module was all about electrophysiology, membrane potentials, and ion channels. He is an incredibly sweet and caring professor, taking time during lecture and office hours to provide extensive answers to any and all student questions. Dr. Schweizer does tend to ramble and stray on tangents for a while, so sometimes his lectures are quite confusing. Additionally, there is not much text on his slides, but rather only pictures/graphs, so understanding and writing down what he is saying is crucial. His exam wasn't terrible; it did have the lowest average of the three, though. It was mainly short-answer questions with a few select all that apply multiple choice questions as well. For Schweizer's exam, having a strong conceptual understanding of the material is crucial; most of his questions were not something that was found word-for-word on the slides, but rather relied on a true understanding of his material. Average on his exam was an 82% (16.37/20). Module 2 Motor Systems by Stephanie White: Dr. White's module was all about motor systems and motor control, from lower motor neurons and upper motor neurons to the basal ganglia and cerebellum. Dr. White was an incredibly clear lecturer, and her slides were the most helpful and informative of the three professors. There were a lot of basal ganglia and cerebellum pathways to know, but since our year was open note, this was much easier since memorization was not required. Dr. White was very helpful in office hours as well. Her exam felt alright and was mostly multiple choice, but there were a lot of ambiguous questions, and many of the questions were not directly covered in lecture but rather required critical thinking and interpretation. Average on her exam was an 85% (17/20). Module 3 Sensory Systems by Natik Piri: Dr. Piri's module was all about sensory systems, like hearing, taste, touch, smell, pain, but mostly on vision since his research focuses on ophthalmology. Dr. Piri was an incredibly clear and helpful professor; his slides were mainly all images, but he was so clear while explaining that if you take quality notes, you will succeed on his exam. Watching the lecture recordings for Dr. Piri's lectures is also very beneficial to catch all the details. I would say that Dr. Piri's module is the most dense; there are a lot of sensory transduction pathways to understand, especially for vision. Granted since our exams were open note, it was significantly easier, as we only had to understand how the pathway worked and not actually memorize the entire pathway itself. Dr. Piri's exam felt the easiest and most straightforward of the three professors; most of the answers could be found directly in the lecture slides, and not much conceptual/critical thinking was needed to succeed in his exam. Average on his exam was a 91% (18.16/20). Overall, while many say and hear horrors about this class, I thought it wasn't that bad at all, probably because of the online, open-note exams. I think this class was definitely much easier than Neuroscience 102. Grading wise, the averages for each exam are listed above, and most people had a 40/40 (or very close to full marks) on the non-exam points of this class, i.e. the quizzes, participation, and seminar/clinical correlation writeups. Therefore, the average score on this class if we do (16.37 + 17 + 18.16 + 40) = 91.5, which is an A-. A- average for NEUROSC M101A, an upper-division core neuroscience class does not seem bad at all. Moreover, the medians for each exam was approximately 0.5% above the average/mean, so if we consider the median grade of the class, it is likely right around 93%, which is the cutoff for an A. How nice! However, last year (fall 2023)'s distributions were much lower, likely because 2023's exams were in person without any notes, so the online open-note exams definitely did make the 2024 class much easier. Schweizer's module was the most conceptually rigorous, while Piri's module was the most dense with information and pathways to memorize/understand. White's module was a healthy balance of conceptual understanding and pathway memorization. Overall, this class was a uniquely enjoyable experience of essentially 3 three-week long mini-classes, each taught on a different topic by a professor who does research and is an expert in their field of lecture. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. NEUROSC M101A Quarter: N/A Grade: N/A Jan. 11, 2014 He teaches the 3rd module of 101A. He gives a lot of material but his exams is quite straight forward if you know everything. His lectures are a bit boring though and hard to keep listening for two hours. He follows the book quite well however. So that's good. Helpful? 0 0 Please log in to provide feedback. 1 of 2 ADS Report Review Did this review contain... Please select a category for your report. Are there any additional details that you would like to provide? Optional: Please provide an email address if you would like to be updated on this report. CANCEL Adblock Detected Bruinwalk is an entirely Daily Bruin-run service brought to you for free. We hate annoying ads just as much as you do, but they help keep our lights on. We promise to keep our ads as relevant for you as possible, so please consider disabling your ad-blocking software while using this site. Thank you for supporting us! ×