Major Capstone – Undergraduate Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program The Neuroscience, B.S. is designated as a capstone major. The capstone major at UCLA serves as a project-based culmination to a curriculum (a meaningful, shaped collection of courses typical of a major or minor), bringing together in a coherent way key elements of that curriculum. The acquisition of knowledge should lead to a specialized topic explored in a paper or project. Methodological training should be applied to a specific inquiry. Knowledge integrated across a range of topics and disciplines should provide broader contexts for a topic or project. And specific skills, such as research, discussion, teamwork, project design, performance, oral presentation, and writing, should be employed as appropriate to that inquiry. Students must select one of the following four options to satisfy the major capstone requirement. Option 1: Lab Methods NEUROSC/PSYCH M116A OR PSYCH 116B Additional Major Elective Students who choose the Lab Methods capstone option must take a total of 4 major upper division electives with at least one elective from each elective category (review elective categories here ). The 4th elective may be from any category. Option 2: Independent Research NEUROSC 198A * OR 199A NEUROSC 198B * OR 199B *Students pursuing Departmental Honors must complete NEUROSC 198A/B instead of 199A/B. Important Notes on Independent Research: Pre-requisites: NEUROSC M101A (with a grade of C- or higher) At least one quarter of an SRP-99 OR departmental 199 research contract in the same neuroscience-related research lab under the same faculty mentor who has an Academic Senate title Only UCLA research labs are eligible for the capstone (no outside research labs) NEUROSC 198/199 research contracts are solely intended for Neuroscience majors completing the Independent Research capstone option or Neuroscience minors completing the research contracts to satisfy an elective requirement. NEUROSC 198/199 research contracts are 4 units each. Letter grades are assigned upon completion of NEUROSC 198B/199B, earning the student 8 total units. Grades for NEUROSC 199A/198A will remain as “IP” (in-progress) indefinitely, but the 4 units still count towards study list units. NEUROSC 198/199 research contracts are only available during the regular academic quarters (fall, winter, and spring) and must be taken in consecutive quarters. NEUROSC 198 research contracts can only be taken in consecutive quarters during the same academic year (i.e., fall and winter or winter and spring). Students are limited to completing either NEUROSC 198A/B or NEUROSC 199A/B once. Students who’d like to continue earning academic credit for their research can complete NEUROSC 199C (only once) or a departmental 199. Participation required at the annual Neuroscience Poster Day held during spring quarter. For enrollment information in the Neuroscience contract courses, please see here . Option 3: Project Brainstorm NEUROSC 192BX (winter and spring quarters) Important Notes on Project Brainstorm: Prerequisites: NEUROSC M101A (with a grade of C- or higher) Approval by instructors via application process Project Brainstorm is a two-quarter outreach and research project offered to juniors and seniors in the Neuroscience major, in which students have an opportunity to develop teaching lessons on neuroscience that are presented to local K-12 students. Project Brainstorm meets on Thursdays from 9:00 am – 11:50 am in both the winter and spring quarters. However, there will be additional requirements and an increased time commitment to satisfy the capstone. Students who are interested in applying to Project Brainstorm should apply in fall quarter when applications are made available. Admission into the Project Brainstorm capstone option is highly-competitive, with 8-10 students typically being accepted every year. Students who are accepted into the program will be enrolled in NEUROSC 192BX in winter and spring quarter by the Neuroscience advisors. Applicants should plan for an alternative capstone option, since admission is not guaranteed. Please refer to the other capstone options as alternatives. Participation required at the annual Neuroscience Outreach Day held during spring quarter. Option 4: DOPA-Team NEUROSC C177 (winter quarter) NEUROSC 192CX (spring quarter) Important Notes on DOPA-Team: Prerequisites: NEUROSC M101A (with a grade of C- or higher) Approval by instructors via application process DOPA-Team is a two-quarter outreach and research project offered to juniors and seniors in the Neuroscience major, in which students have the opportunity to choose a novel, unique project, such as youth drug trends over time during the winter quarter, and be given the opportunity to choose a drug category and translate the academic knowledge acquired in C177 into an age-appropriate and interactive presentation and hands-on activity for high school students during the spring quarter. Students who are interested in applying to DOPA-Team should apply in fall quarter when applications are made available. Admission into the DOPA-Team capstone option is highly-competitive, with 12-16 students typically being accepted every year. Students who are accepted into the program will be enrolled in NEUROSC C177 in winter quarter and NEUROSC 192CX in spring quarter by the Neuroscience advisors. Accepted students should not enroll themselves in NEUROSC C177, as seats are held for those completing this capstone option. Additionally, NEUROSC C177 cannot satisfy a major elective requirement for DOPA-Team students, so they will need need to complete 3 other major electives. Applicants should plan for an alternative capstone option, since admission is not guaranteed. Please refer to the other capstone options as alternatives. Participation required at the annual Neuroscience Outreach Day held during spring quarter.