A little neuroscience advice : ucla jump to content my subreddits edit subscriptions popular - all - users | AskReddit - pics - funny - movies - gaming - worldnews - news - todayilearned - nottheonion - explainlikeimfive - mildlyinteresting - DIY - videos - OldSchoolCool - TwoXChromosomes - tifu - Music - books - LifeProTips - dataisbeautiful - aww - science - space - Showerthoughts - askscience - Jokes - Art - IAmA - Futurology - sports - UpliftingNews - food - nosleep - creepy - history - gifs - InternetIsBeautiful - GetMotivated - gadgets - announcements - WritingPrompts - philosophy - Documentaries - EarthPorn - photoshopbattles - listentothis - blog more » ucla comments Want to join? Log in or sign up in seconds. limit my search to r/ucla use the following search parameters to narrow your results: subreddit: subreddit find submissions in "subreddit" author: username find submissions by "username" site: example.com find submissions from "example.com" url: text search for "text" in url selftext: text search for "text" in self post contents self:yes (or self:no) include (or exclude) self posts nsfw:yes (or nsfw:no) include (or exclude) results marked as NSFW e.g. subreddit:aww site:imgur.com dog see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... this post was submitted on 24 Jun 2020 241 points (99% upvoted) shortlink: Submit Link Submit Text ucla join leave Subreddit Rules 1. Treat other users with respect and civility. 2. Posts must be on topic about UCLA or at least of obvious interest to UCLA students/faculty/staff. 3. No advertising, promotion, clickbait, or spam. Don’t use the subreddit for profit or monetization. 4. No soliciting users to fill out surveys. 5. No politics that are not explicitly UCLA related. Relevant Subreddits /r/UCLAhousing /r/bruinfriends /r/bruindating /r/8Clap /r/UCLABruins /r/UCLAFootball /r/LosAngeles /r/Applyingtocollege /r/USC Useful Resources myUCLA UCLA Free & For Sale facebook Professor and class reviews Weekly events on campus Ombuds/legal counsel for student-faculty disputes Counseling and Psychological Services UC Subreddits /r/UCI /r/UCR /r/UCSD /r/UCSC /r/Berkeley /r/UCDavis /r/UCMerced /r/UCSantaBarbara Feel free to message the mods if you have any concerns or helpful suggestions, or if you suspect your post is caught in the spam filter. a community for 17 years MODERATORS message the mods Welcome to Reddit, the front page of the internet. Become a Redditor and join one of thousands of communities. × 240 241 242 A little neuroscience advice ( self.ucla ) submitted 5 years ago * by resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 Hi folks! A recent misty-eyed grad here. Thought I might try and advise any baby neuro Bruins :) TL;DR: Neuroscience requires commitment and a lot of work, but it is fascinating and endlessly fulfilling. Don't slack off and UCLA will reward you. But don't devote your entire existence to your academics, either. I had a spectacular four years at UCLA, this last quarter nonwithstanding. I adore my major and I have had a great time doing research, but most importantly, I really, really treasure the friendships I made. The most important strategy in developing those friendships was getting involved. You’ll hear this over and over, because it’s true. Even if you’re an introvert, even if you hate interacting with people, even if you just want to curl up in your room and game all day – spend your first quarter on campus trying to meet and involve yourself in as many programs, groups, and clubs as possible. If it sounds even vaguely interesting, apply or attend. You may make friends with your roommates or with your floor, but in my experience, my deepest and most meaningful friendships came from my orgs. Working toward a common purpose is a powerful bonding experience, and when that common purpose is something you’re passionate about, that is doubly true. That being said – do not feel pressure to stay involved in everything. It is okay to flake , especially early in your college experience. You’re exploring your interests, and it’s okay to back away from something that you don’t find as interesting as you thought you would. Be kind and polite, obviously, but don’t let awkwardness or social pressure keep you from withdrawing from something that isn’t holding your attention and interest the way that you thought it would. If you throw yourself into a bunch of organizations early on, a few of them are bound to stick, and a few of them will not. And lastly – be kind to yourself. You’re probably coming from your high school or your community college having been one of the star students there. And that’s wonderful! You are a star! Just keep in mind that you have now earned your place at an institution where everybody has a strong academic/leadership background, and you are one of the crowd. In some ways, this is great – for people that hate getting attention, going from the top of the class to the middle of the pack is a blessing. For other people, though, going from being the best to being the okayest is an unpleasant transition. I struggled with imposter syndrome, and even now, having earned my degree, it’s hard for me to feel like I had earned my place here. Despite the fact that I got a graduation slide, I still kind of hear the voice telling me that I didn’t belong, that admissions somehow made a mistake. Don’t indulge those thoughts . After a bad grade or an embarrassing social faux pas, it’s easy to bully yourself, but it’s incredibly hard to pull yourself back to a place of pride. You belong here , and don’t convince yourself otherwise. Anyway. On to neuroscience! LS = life science; lower div = lower division classes (numbered 0-99, intro classes typically taken by freshmen or sophomores); upper div = upper division classes (numbered 100-199, more advanced major/minor-specific classes typically taken by juniors/seniors) u/jayfreakingleno did a great job talking about the lower divs, so if you want a different and much more in-depth perspective on these classes you can check out their post here . If you’re curious about UCLA LS physics, I am not the person to refer to, for reasons I’ll detail below. DISCLAIMER: I’m not premed. I am happy to field any premed questions, because any LS major is an honorary premed by the time they graduate, but I don’t have a particularly valuable viewpoint on the subject. Nonmajor requisites CHEM 14A/B: AP Chem Redux General chemistry/thermodynamics I was a great student in high school – coasted by with no problems. I had taken AP Chem and done well. This was going to be a piece of cake. Dr. Laurence Lavelle had nothing on me. These classes were splash of cold fucking water to the face. My AP Chem knowledge would have helped me – if I’d made even a modicum of effort to review it. People call these weeder classes, and for the first few weeks of my fall quarter, I could see why. But grin and bear it. Look up old tests, and talk to sophomores who have recently taken these classes (yet another reason to get involved in organizations! Your older peers will often have the advice/academic knowledge/resources you need to get by!). Use the course reader and study for the goddamn quizzes. This is where I screwed myself – I did okay on the midterm and final by cramming, but I didn’t take the quizzes very seriously. Your first quiz for 14A may be the first academic assessment you take at UCLA. Act like it. Study your ass off; you’ll thank me for the a. good grade you get and b. time you save studying for the first midterm. I can only speak to having taken these classes with Dr. Lavelle. He’s a very standard™ professor, and a good intro to the kind of faculty that usually teach these large classes – he is knowledgeable, pretty clear during lecture, and wants everyone to learn, but one-on-one time with him is extremely limited. You’ll rely on TAs to answer questions and explain specifics to you. You will make it through these classes. I honestly think it’s super valuable to start baby LS students in subjects that maybe aren’t the easiest; it preps you for your majors. Baptism by fire. CHEM 14C/D: Oh God, It Burns Organic chemistry Ochem. Orgo. Organic chemistry. You’ve heard about it, you’ve dreaded it, you’ve wondered if it lives up to the hype. This topic is very much a love it or hate it situation. I loved it. It felt like a breath of fresh air after the math-heavy 14A and B. Ochem is a series of puzzles you need to solve; if you enjoy puzzles, you’ll have a blast. I had Dr. Hardinger, who I believe has now retired. He was considered the most difficult of the professors teaching ochem at the time, so I think you will be okay. Fun fact: Hung Pham, who teaches 14D, is not the same Hung Pham who teaches for the LS series. Don’t get confused when you’re signing up for classes. For these classes, it is 100% absolutely vital that you find practice tests and take them. That’s how you do well. Your exams will be structured in the same way as past exams, and you’ll find that they’re almost EASY if you are prepared. Just like completing a bunch of crossword puzzles or sudoku grids will make you faster and more accurate for those types of puzzles, doing as many old practice problems as you can will make you lightning-quick when you’re trying to determine structures (in 14C) or reactions (in 14D). Isn’t organic chemistry horribly hard? UCLA ochem is not legendarily difficult like it is at other schools; I believe the grade distribution is about the same as gen chem. CHEM 14BL/CL: give me mouth-pipetting (and thus) give me death BL: gen chem lab; CL: organic chem lab These classes are a pain, but necessary. How do we know the things we learned in class? Well, someone did all the shit that you are taught in these classes, and now we know the things. (CL might not be required for the major anymore. Check.) There’s a ton of busy work here. You’ll be writing lab reports day in and day out. Although these are low-unit classes, they were definitely the most work-intensive classes in the quarters I was taking them. You’re also given midterms and finals on lab concepts. Try to make it to lecture. I’d recommend Dr. Casey for CL; she was very clear and straightforward. Although these aren’t required before you take your major classes – they’re just required at some point in your time at UCLA – try to take them soon after/alongside the 14 series, since the concepts are aligned. Physics Abroad: how I fucked off to Ireland instead of facing UCLA physics like a real man Title, basically. I was lucky to have the means and the time to take physics abroad the summer after my sophomore year. This is a very popular study abroad program for life science majors, and I believe it has expanded – it used to just be offered in Dublin, Sussex, and Glasgow, but last I heard there were physics classes happening in other places, like Cyprus, Hong Kong, Sydney, and Madrid. Yay for science abroad! It’s pretty dope that UCLA offers STEM majors a way to efficiently study abroad; it’s just sad that this is extra money spent, since it’s over the summer and doesn’t replace an in-person quarter. Financial aid is available; I sure as hell wouldn’t have been able to go if the financial aid office didn’t come through. If this is something you’re interested in, start talking to them now. I loved my time in Dublin. I had a great AP Physics teacher in high school, so I remembered my mechanics very well; this meant that I spent a lot of the first half of the course skipping lecture and spending time in the city instead. The classes are pretty intense because they are fast (8 weeks to cover about 4/5 of the material that the year of UCLA physics covers). If you have any specific questions about study abroad, especially physics in Dublin, feel free to PM me. I’ve talked a little bit about it here. Will this be good for the MCAT? NO. My close friend was with me in Ireland and did well, but felt massively underprepared for the physics section of the MCAT and ended up doing a bunch of self-studying. LS Core: wait a minute…I do like science! Intro biology Winter quarter of my freshman year, the LS department told us that LS 7A in the fall would be reserved for incoming freshmen only, and that they recommended we start the LS series immediately in spring instead. Unlike most people, who were more sensible and patient, I listened to this (terrible) advice and enrolled in LS 2. This locked me into the 1, 2, 3, 4 series. The series used to be LS 1 (intro to ecology/evolutionary bio), LS 2 (tissues and organs), LS 3 (molecular bio), LS 4 (genetics). These topics were redistributed into the 3 LS 7 classes, with LS 107 covering most of genetics now. From what I’ve heard, though, the classes are structured the same. You’ll be asked to purchase (boo) an online textbook that lets you use “Launchpad” to do homework assignments; these are basically free points. These classes used iClickers to take attendance – again, basically free points. Just show up to lecture and pay a reasonable amount of attention. Exams are multiple-choice. Keep in mind – if you strongly dislike the subject matter of all of these classes, take a good hard look at your major. Yes, major classes are more in-depth and intellectually stimulating, but in the end most of them are extensions of some part of the material you learn in the LS series. If you don’t like a single part of that series, there’s a chance you may simply not like life science. If you’re set on being premed, fine, but maybe change majors – by this point, you’ll have taken all of your premed requirements anyway. LS23L, the LS lab class, is nothing. It’s 3 hours once a week of a high school biology lab class; it’s baseline interesting, and pretty easy, but a tiny bit of a waste of time if you’re in a life science lab. If you’re not in a lab already, though, it’s a good intro to basic lab techniques. Math/stats: yes, they’re useful in the real world Sorry to people taking LS 30A/B; I took Math 3C and Stats 13. AP Calculus BC gets you out of Math 3A and Math 3B, so all I had to take was Math 3C – linear algebra for life science majors. I took it with Dr. Unger, who was a Classic Professor™ in every possible way. He could not have been more of a walking stereotype. The guy literally wore tweed suits with elbow patches, lost track of what he was saying in the middle of sentences, and had hands and hair that were constantly covered in chalk. I was in love with him. Linear algebra is really helpful for modeling things. Matrices are great for data organization and knowing how to manipulate them is an essential skill. For this class, I’d recommend a study group to do the homework with. Math classes have reasonably generous curves; an 89% got me a solid A. A lot of people have Dr. Noah White, who I’ve heard is pretty good too. Stats 13 was both ridiculously easy and ridiculously useful. I took it with Mike Tsiang, who is a SAINT. (He participates a lot in Peaks and Professors, a club that organizes hikes with students and lecturers, and he is a great conversationalist too.) The class teaches you the basics of using R, and all of the baseline types of statistical tests that are used in the life sciences. This stuff is the bedrock of research. Understand it. Tests were multiple choice. Chem 153A: all this metabolism and I’m still gaining weight Biochem, intro to structure, enzymes, & metabolism This class is like the unholy marriage of gen and organic chemistry. I took it with Dr. Tienson, who was perfectly serviceable. Honestly, the class is really manageable as long as you stay on top of your memorization; for example, in the first week, you need to memorize the structure of all 20 amino acids. But it was kind of refreshing to take something that was so straightforward about its requirements. Try to find past exams. They’ll help. The Major The neuroscience major requires: Core classes: Neuroscience 101A, 101B, 101C, 102 Electives: 3 electives, one each from the categories “behavioral/cognitive”, “systems”, and “molecular, cellular, developmental” (list can be found in the middle of the page here ) Capstone: 2 quarters of independent neuroscience research in a lab (Neuroscience 199A+B) OR participation in Project Brainstorm (Neuroscience 192B) OR participation in DOPA-Team (Neuroscience C177 + 192C) OR 1 additional elective + Neuroscience 101L/Psych 116 I LOVE THIS MAJOR. Neuroscience is the shit!!! This is partially because UCLA doesn’t actually have an undergrad neuroscience department. Instead, it’s run by the Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program (IDP), and the professors are all in different departments – many are from PhySci and psych, but there are professors that teach neuro classes that come from the music department, ecology/evolutionary bio, math, stats, and CS. The neuroscience electives are AMAZING and the breadth and depth of knowledge you obtain is unparalleled. Want to focus on some super-niche aspect of neuro? Great, here are three electives that fit right into that. Want to take three completely unrelated classes? Awesome, you have options. Neuroscience is also great because of how research-focused it is. Whenever possible, your professors don’t give you straight-up facts to memorize. They’ll give you the study that showed the fact that they want you to learn. It constantly feels like you’re peeking behind the curtain. Unfortunately, to unlock this greatness, you need to get past the gauntlet that is the core classes. These are four classes, each only offered during one quarter of the year; 101A and 102 are offered in the fall, 101B is offered in the winter, and 101C is offered in the spring. You’ll usually see everybody take them during their junior year, with a few people taking (or, sometimes, retaking :() during their senior year. Each of the 101 classes is split into 3 3.5-week-long modules. Each module is its own individual subject, and each one ends with a midterm. Then you leave that module in the dust and move on to the next one. Your “final” each quarter is simply your third midterm, and is weighted the same as the other two. 102 is neuroanatomy. MY KEY ADVICE: Save 102 for your senior year. You will be happy to not study for it and 101A at the same time. Yes, neuroanatomy is useful later in the course, but it’s much easier to simply learn the relevant brain areas in 101B and 101C than it is to learn everything at the same time alongside 101A. This is not at all helpful, since I assume my guy has graduated now, but Terry Prins was a god-tier TA for the 101 series and for 102. I didn’t have him for 101A and B and that now makes me sad. That being said, all the TAs were usually helpful – their office hours are a valuable source of information. 101A – Bless your soul, you thought your lower divs were fast-paced? (the basics) (offered every fall quarter) Modules: Electrophysiology, motor systems, sensory systems Dr. Scott Chandler teaches the first module. He is a ?-year-old electrophysiologist that loves the subject. He gives you a thicc course reader that contains all the information that you need for his module; you don’t even have to attend lecture, although you’ll want to, because he’s absolutely adorable. He is, however, pretty inflexible in his manner of teaching; you may have to get someone else to explain a concept to you if his office hours don’t do the trick. This is the most hard-science you’ll get in the core classes; it feels like chemistry and physics are haunting you. It’s all chemical and electrical gradients and equations. Dr. Stephanie White teaches the second module. She’s the chair of the IDP and is married to another member of the neuro faculty. She does research with songbirds, and will use any opportunity to show you bird data. It’s super cute. This module focuses on motor systems – how your motor neurons are organized and how they communicate to your body. You’ll talk about brain structures, nerve structures, and individual neuronal rhythms. Dr. Natik Piri teaches the last module, sensory systems. I found this one the coolest of the three, but it is also ironically the one I did the worst on. He discusses all five normally discussed senses, plus proprioception and pain. There’s more memorization in his section than in the other two; focus on pathways when you’re studying. 101B – talk chemical to me (offered every winter quarter) Modules: development, (membrane structures??), (interneural communication?) If I’m being honest, I don’t remember this class that well. I was in a bad place mental healthwise winter quarter of my junior year, and I was kind of in a fugue state the whole time. Oops. Dr. Josh Trachtenberg (sp?) teaches the first module – development. THIS STUFF IS SUPER SUPER COOL. It’s how the brain and nervous system develop, and he covers every level of it – from the structures down to the signaling molecules. Trachtenberg is super deadpan about everything, which can be really funny. Dr. Walter Babiec teaches the second and the third module – that’s part of my confusion with the subject matter. Since there was no professor transition it’s not as easy for me to remember what was taught in which section. We learned about different kinds of receptors and channels in his first module, and about neurotransmitters and electrical signaling in the last module. He’s this wild-haired physiology guy, and when you speak with him one-on-one he’s kind of scary intense, but he’s pretty cool. 101C – Psych! (offered every spring quarter) Modules: Motivation, learning and memory, cognition Dr. Kate Wassum teaches motivation. This is objectively the easiest module, because it’s so classically interesting – she talks about the systems that drive addiction, want, desire, attention, you name it. For a lot of us, these are topics that got us initially interested in neuroscience. She focuses quite a bit on feeding, since a lot of this work is done in rodents and when you’re working with animals that can’t talk, food is a great motivating factor. I’m a little biased, because her work is related to the work I did in my lab, but this was my favorite module. Dr. Wassum is a great lecturer, and she gives everybody plenty of resources to learn with. Dr. David Glanzman teaching learning and memory. This was really cool because he’s the guy that did some of the experiments that are now taught in neuro lecture halls around the world! He talks a lot about how simple forms of learning work in sea slugs, and then discusses long-term potentiation and depression (neurons that fire together wire together, that classic neuro maxim). He is less available for questions than Dr. Wassum is. Dr. Barbara Knowlton teaches cognition. This relates quite a bit to the previous module; she starts off talking about memory and the different forms of knowledge. This was the section where you learn about learning; honestly, if this module were moved to the front of the series, maybe I would have done better overall. She discusses the different types of memory and how attention works. And then you finish 101C, and you realize you will never take another 3 and a half week long neuroscience module again, and you feel a little empty inside. 102 – braaaaains (offered every summer and fall quarter)Neuroanatomy Taught by Dr. Janel Lebelle and Dr. Mayumi Prins (no relation to Terry). 102 is actually just memorization of the locations and functions of brain parts. It’s a lot of information, but it is absolutely manageable. Find a partner or two and study with them. Luckily, there’s weekly quizzes in lab section that keep you on your toes. The final is cumulative with focus on the last section of the course. I found it really rewarding to take this class after all the 101 classes. Knowing the location and appearance of these brain parts isn’t vital for the 101 series, and I thought it was really cool to learn where they were after learning what their functions were. Maybe I’m weird for thinking this. The neuro counselor will push you to take 102 early, claiming that you have to take it alongside 101A, but that is not true. The core classes all have weekly discussion section. In the 101 classes, all discussions are on Friday and come with a quiz. You’ll also usually be assigned a paper to read before section because, like I mentioned before, neuro is a research-focused major. Electives Honestly, everyone takes a different set of electives. I’d recommend Dr. Chandler’s (PhySci M145 EPhys of movement), which is about the electrophysiology and channels behind muscle coordination; Dr. Correa’s (PhySci C127 neuroendocrinology of reproduction), which is about sex determination and a lot of the hormones that regulate the female reproductive system; Dr. Evans/Dr. Romero’s (Neuro C177 Neuroscience of Drug Abuse), which taught us both about general mechanisms of drugs and about their specific effects; Dr. Evans/Dr. Poe’s (Neuro M187 Neuroscience of Bias); and Music Industry M103 – it’s Thursdays 6-9pm and you just vibe with one of the music department professors about music and the brain. Perfect for a senior sick of going out every single fucking thirsty Thursday for nearly four years. I’ve also heard great things about Dr. White’s (evolution/structure of language) and Dr. Babiec’s (I have no idea what it is but the people I know who took it loved it). Capstone Again for the folks in the back: neuro is a research-based major. It requires a capstone. Many people (myself included) are in neuroscience(ish) labs and do neuroscience 199 – research for credit. You can also do a 198, which is honors research and requires writing a thesis. I didn’t do honors, and I kind of regret it. If your GPA qualifies you for it, you should go for it! Two quarters of neuro 199 or 198 and you are taken care of for your research requirement. Another option is to take an “extra” (fourth) elective and then take the lab class, Neuro 101L. Many people take more than three electives anyway, so that isn’t too much of a requirement. However, 101L is a beast. “It’s like if 14CL and 101A had a baby that wanted to kill me.” -my friend There are also two outreach-based ways to fulfill your capstone, Project Brainstorm and DOPA-Team. I won’t pretend to know a lot about them, just that their mission seems really cool – I think they develop teaching projects for elementary (maybe middle or high? I’m unclear) schools in the area. Project Brainstorm teaches neuroscience and DOPA-Team does drug education. I won’t kid you. Neuro is hard. It’s hard to be surrounded by some of the most brilliant people your age you’ve ever met, who are happily la-di-daing their way through these classes without a care in the world while you are fighting tooth and nail for a B+. It’s hard to have to memorize forty million names and locations and connections. Every year, a new crop of students comes in neuroscience. And every year, a lot of them leave to other majors – psychobiology is the most popular. But those that stick around have a powerful passion to understand what makes people tick, on every level, from the molecular to the psychological. It’s worth it, because in the end you really feel like you earned your degree. And, at the risk of sounding stupid cliché, you made friends along the way. Neuroscience is a big major, but the fact that you go through the core classes together really does bond you. I wouldn’t trade neuro for a thing. I’m going to be applying to graduate programs in neuroscience at some point in the next two years; until then, I’m working as a lab tech. I’m grateful that I got such a thorough education at UCLA. I also completed two minors. If you’re in neuro, I’d recommend adding a minor in another topic simply to offset the barrage of hard scientific information. Like I said at the beginning, find your people. Find your niche. Do that early, because your classes and your responsibilities will weigh on you if you wait too long. The most important thing, though: through it all, don’t forget to relax. Have fun. You’re in LA! Go to movies, go to the theater, go to the beach and to the hills and downtown. Party. Go clubbing. Spend time with your friends. Explore your passions with outside activities. Even in a major like neuro, don’t bog yourself down with your academics. Don’t trade a good memory for a good grade. If COVID-19 taught me anything, it’s that. Our student body is so beautiful and vibrant. We’re the optimists! (I have no idea if that ad campaign is still going, but I really liked it.) I genuinely admire nearly every person I’ve met at UCLA; everyone has a talent, even those that insist they don’t. These really are going to be some of the best years of your life. Take advantage of that. Go Bruins! Update April 2025: Since some folks have messaged me further questions: It's been a few years and I'm currently a third-year grad student in neuroscience at a different UC. The subject is still incredible, the undergrad institution is still the best, and I'd genuinely do it all again with only the most minor changes. 49 comments share save hide report all 49 comments sorted by: best top new controversial old random q&a live (beta) Want to add to the discussion? Post a comment! Create an account [–] bloolychee 31 points 32 points 33 points 5 years ago (1 child) Holy crap, exactly 5 minutes ago I was having an existential crisis wondering whether neuro was for me, then this post came along and reminded me of how amazing I find neuroscience. Thanks for so putting so much detail into the post! As an incoming sophomore, I really appreciate it :) I'll keep your advice in mind especially when going into my upper divs permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 17 points 18 points 19 points 5 years ago (0 children) Believe me, I've had that crisis a lot! When in doubt, remember: we know more about the surface of the moon than we do about the bottom of the ocean...and (by some measures) we know more about the bottom of the ocean than we do about our own brains. You get to be on the forefront of these discoveries. It's the actual cutting edge and it is so exciting. When I look at it that way, putting in some hard work here and there seems worth it :) permalink embed save parent report reply [–] striated1 BIO 22 24 points 25 points 26 points 5 years ago (1 child) Not a neuro major but thanks so much for the info youre giving us babies permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 9 points 10 points 11 points 5 years ago (0 children) Of course! Those lower division classes are no joke. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] aaaa2016aus 10 points 11 points 12 points 5 years ago (0 children) Omg thank you so so much!!! I literally saw the other post and was like wow i wish someone would do it for neuro, and here you are! :D i just started 102 for session A and will be doing the core classes next year, I’m scared yes, but you made me feel a lot better about it :) also, you sound so nice and kind and smart and awesome, I’m in love w you LMAO good luck w grad school and congrats on graduating!! :) permalink embed save report reply [–] [deleted] 5 years ago (1 child) [deleted] [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 7 points 8 points 9 points 5 years ago * (0 children) No problem! I love to spread the gospel of UCLA neuro :) I minored in history and in biomedical research. Those were totally different experiences - the history minor is literally just any seven history classes taken at any point, so I spread those out among my neuro classes. That's kind of what I meant when I said to offset the course load; without history I would have been tempted to overload on science courses for the sake of speeding up my degree, and that would have been disastrous. The biomedical research minor is a whole structured program with extracurricular requirements (poster presentation and a thesis). If you're into research, it's seriously the best thing ever - some of the coolest faculty I've met were through the minor, and I've seen presentations on fascinating research done by peers. But it's not quite a classical academic minor per se. Edit: Didn't address your balancing question. I used my lower-div history classes to fulfill GE requirements, and after that, the upper-division ones slotted in fairly easily. There were a few crowded 18- and 19-unit quarters here and there, and one 21-unit one, but it was manageable. permalink embed save report reply [–] soursporky 6 points 7 points 8 points 5 years ago (0 children) neuroscience incoming sophomore here :,) thank you so much for writing this! i’m even more excited to take the major courses now <3 permalink embed save report reply [–] FamousWolf559 Bio ‘23 6 points 7 points 8 points 5 years ago (2 children) Can someone plz make one of these for MIMG? permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 6 points 7 points 8 points 5 years ago (1 child) I was actually inspired to write this by an MIMG post here ! permalink embed save parent report reply [–] FamousWolf559 Bio ‘23 6 points 7 points 8 points 5 years ago (0 children) Oh, haven't seen that post since I've been pretty busy lately. Thanks for letting me know! permalink embed save parent report reply [–] jayfreakingleno MIMG '20 5 points 6 points 7 points 5 years ago (0 children) Good shit! Awesome post, full of important things. Definitely agree particularly with developing friendships early and doing what you want to do. Again, flaking is totally cool. :) permalink embed save report reply [–] [deleted] 5 points 6 points 7 points 5 years ago (4 children) Thank you so so much for posting about your experience in such detail. I’m so very grateful. I’m an incoming junior and have been feeling like I don’t know if I deserve it and I don’t know if i made the correct choice of choosing ucla over Berkeley. This post was extremely helpful. I greatly appreciate all the insight. I too am not a premed and got so excited to find another non premed pursuing neuroscience. If you don’t mind me asking, what are your plans for grad school? And do you plan on pursuing research? If so, how would you recommend going about it? Thank you :) permalink embed save report reply [–] AutoModerator [ M ] 5 points 6 points 7 points 5 years ago (0 children) This is a friendly reminder to refer to UC Berkeley by its preferred name, UCB, when posting on r/UCLA . Thank you. I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please contact the moderators of this subreddit if you have any questions or concerns. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 years ago (2 children) My plans for grad school are nebulous at best right now. I think I'll be applying to PhD programs, and yes, I do want to focus on research. When you say "going about it", do you mean working in research at UCLA or in the wider world? Feel free to PM me. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] TraditionalGlove 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (1 child) hey OP, I just stumbled upon this post and I was wondering if you were planning to find a job before entering grad school? I’m a neuroscience major, but I’m not too sure what I’ll do with a degree in it because I don’t want to go into med school :/ permalink embed save parent report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (0 children) I'm working as a lab tech right now. Feel free to PM me! permalink embed save parent report reply [–] [deleted] 5 points 6 points 7 points 5 years ago (0 children) Love u so much. Thank u for this. -a rising sophomore who was about to change majors bc of the horrible things said about neuro but am now stating :’) permalink embed save report reply [–] _mickster neuro ‘23 5 points 6 points 7 points 5 years ago (0 children) Thank you soooo much for this!! I’m a rising 2nd year and I’m currently a neuro major but was planning to switch bc neuro has a bad wrap for being horrible, GPA killer, etc. But this post helped me find my love for neuro again. Thanks for putting in the time and effort for this review and overall advice!! 😊 permalink embed save report reply [–] xaltuserx 4 points 5 points 6 points 5 years ago (4 children) Awesome response! Do you mind if I chip in some of my experiences as a neuro major as well? I can provide insight into physics, the 7 series and the LS 30 series. I'll be graduating with Neuro in 2021. permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 years ago (3 children) Absolutely! Is there anything I can do to bring this comment to the top? Or could you write your own thread? r/ucla mods help (how do I summon them I am reddit illiterate) permalink embed save parent report reply [–] BatManatee MIMG '13 and PhD '20 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (2 children) Closest thing to that is probably editing your post to add their content to it and citing them. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (1 child) Oh, duh, silly me. I thought there was some kind of timer on the ability to edit, but there evidently isn't. u/xaltuserx could you comment your advice and I'll put it into the post? permalink embed save parent report reply [–] xaltuserx 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (0 children) Yeah sure! I will post it as a reply to one of your comments so you can see it. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] cranialAnalyst 3 points 4 points 5 points 5 years ago (1 child) Hi all. I was a grad student here. and also taught these courses. ask questions if you want. I did a load of research as well. ITT: BLACK MARKET CHANDLER EXAMS permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 4 points 5 points 6 points 5 years ago * (0 children) GUYS SERIOUSLY ALL HAIL THE TAs!! We love what they do for us. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] fartprinceredux 3 points 4 points 5 points 5 years ago (1 child) Thanks for the long write-up. It's so interesting to hear the undergrad perspective -- I've been at UCLA for 10 years doing neuroscience stuff, so hearing about the faculty and people from the undergrad side is a different (and useful) perspective. permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 1 point 2 points 3 points 5 years ago (0 children) I really liked most (honestly, all) of the neuro faculty I had. People don't get to teach neuroscience here without absolutely knowing their stuff and displaying a love for it. I know some of my peers do not feel the same, and I may be a little too rosy-lensed right now. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] juxtahosition 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 years ago (1 child) Great write up! I also am doing Neuro + History minor right now! Going into my last year at UCLA permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 years ago (0 children) Us dual-campus folks gotta stick together! There's a girl in my class that just graduated with a double neuroscience and art history major. It makes the college experience so rich to take a variety of classes, but I feel like so many people feel limited to their majors! permalink embed save parent report reply [–] sarowak 2 points 3 points 4 points 5 years ago (0 children) Thank you so much! I’m an incoming Neuro major and it’s awesome to see someone who’s gone through it’s commentary! permalink embed save report reply [–] Caty58182 2 points 3 points 4 points 2 years ago (1 child) 3 years later and still every bit as helpful, thank you king 🤧 permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 2 points 3 points 4 points 2 years ago (0 children) of course!! I’m amazed this is still getting eyes 😂 permalink embed save parent report reply [–] mustachioladyirl fuck around and find out’21 1 point 2 points 3 points 5 years ago (1 child) as an incoming junior, this was super reassuring!! thank you op! one question I have, as someone who wants to do the honors track, how exactly does the thesis work? i'm already involved in a research lab so i definitely wanna do the 198 capstone path permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (0 children) In addition to honors research, I think you need to take 1 core class and 1 elective (2 total classes) with honors, meaning you work with the professor to more deeply engage with the material. For a lot of classes this means attending additional seminars and perhaps turning in a paper. The thesis is simply the written report of your entire research project - I wrote one for the biomedical research minor and it was about 3 times longer than my typical 199 report. You turn it in to the department during your final quarter. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] PlayfulQuail5 1 point 2 points 3 points 5 years ago (0 children) I was reading all these other reddit threads about the horrors of neuro and was really doubting myself, thank goodness for this post! I’m actually a physci major looking to double major in neuro because I have room and can overlap a couple electives. (to anyone) Is this possible/any advice? permalink embed save report reply [–] InsaneMouse_ 1 point 2 points 3 points 5 years ago (1 child) As an incoming neuroscience freshmen this was super helpful. Do you have any suggestions for minors that look good for pre-med? I was wondering if there are any minors a lot of pre-med students take because they look good. I'm not really trying to find the optimal minor or anything I'm just looking for some examples so I can find something interesting to me. permalink embed save report reply [–] mustachioladyirl fuck around and find out’21 1 point 2 points 3 points 5 years ago (0 children) my advice is to find something that strikes your passion. there's no single major/minor that looks better or worse for premed. also, most minors are 8-10 classes, so it's better if you pick something that you don't hate rather than something that might look better for your app...for instance, im currently minoring in theater bc its something ive been passionate about for years (i did theater all 4 years of high school) and i genuinely wanted to learn more about it here is a link to all of the minors offered at ucla: https://www.admission.ucla.edu/prospect/Majors/minor.htm permalink embed save parent report reply [–] golden_teacup 2 points 3 points 4 points 3 years ago (0 children) as a baby neuro major i appreciate this. would you mind sharing what minors you did and how you planned your schedules to graduate on time? i would really really appreciate seeing a breakdown permalink embed save report reply [–] Full-Experience3367 1 point 2 points 3 points 2 years ago (2 children) Hey! Second year neuro major here. Sooo I’m going to start my upper divs soon and want to take off the heavy course load for my fall quarter next year (don’t wanna do 102 and 101A at the same time :/) are you sure you don’t have to take them at the same time? On the description of classes, it says that 101A has a co-requisite with 102 soo idk what to do 😭 permalink embed save report reply [–] [deleted] 2 years ago (1 child) [deleted] [–] Full-Experience3367 0 points 1 point 2 points 2 years ago (0 children) Hey! Unfortunately no :( I had talked with a counselor before tho and she said they were meant to be taken together. If anyone talks to a counselor and asks if they strictly have to be taken together, please lmk what they say permalink embed save report reply [–] bruined99 physiological science ‘21 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (2 children) Do you have anymore insight on Phy Sci M145? I’m about to take it session C but I’m just a little unsure. Anything helps! permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (1 child) Sure! Chandler teaches it; you really need to pay attention when he speaks, or at least attend office hours. His slides by themselves are not very informative. I don’t know how well he’s transitioned to online learning, but he’s very passionate about teaching and really wants to make sure his students understand. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] bruined99 physiological science ‘21 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (0 children) Thank you! I’m actually a phy sci Major and I’m used to learning about the sympathetic chain ganglion, parasympathetic cranial nerve innervation, spinal tracts, etc... not so much the actual cellular level of neuro. Which do you think this classes focuses more on? permalink embed save parent report reply [–] Claire_with_an_E 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (2 children) Thank you so much for all this info! Congrats on graduating and I wish you luck as you apply to grad school! I'm an incoming freshman who had a little trouble w/ enrolling for classes. I didn't get any of my first choices (which were Chem, LS Math, and Biotech Cluster), and barely got any of my alternates. I'll be taking LifeSci 7A (YAY!), Shakespeare, and Intro to Archaeology. As someone who is a perfectionist and is super nervous to start class, do you think these class choices put me at a little bit of a disadvantage, especially for the Neuro major? I'm just nervous I'll have trouble meeting my requirements. Again, though, thanks for all of this helpful information, and I'm so excited to pursue neuroscience! :) permalink embed save report reply [–] resignedtomaturity Neuroscience '20 [ S ] 1 point 2 points 3 points 5 years ago (1 child) My roommate took Shakespeare (the lower div one, I think it's a writing class?) and I took intro to arch, so I can vouch for the fun factor of both of those classes! Many freshmen feel "behind" because they didn't get into the classes they needed. I get it. But I promise, things will balance out. There's a reason Chem 14A and LS30A are offered in winter, too, because there's plenty of people in your boat. The expectation for neuro is that you have most of chem, LS, math and physics completed before taking 101A. That means you have 6 full academic quarters to get those done. Let's do some quick maths: 4 core series chem classes + chem 14B + biochem + 3-4 LS classes + 2 math classes + 3 physics classes. You have 14-16 (depending on how you quantify physics) classes and 5 quarters, after this one, to knock them out. You're already taking care of one of them this quarter; don't beat yourself up over meeting expectations yet. Take a breath and take your time. You would do yourself no favors by trying to rush any of this. permalink embed save parent report reply [–] Claire_with_an_E 0 points 1 point 2 points 5 years ago (0 children) Thank you so much! I really appreciate your help! :) permalink embed save parent report reply [–] FrontCellist7718 1 point 2 points 3 points 1 year ago (0 children) omggg You are such an angel This is really helpful permalink embed save report reply [–] Ok_Calligrapher6549 0 points 1 point 2 points 2 years ago (0 children) Hello! As as an incoming freshman exploring what classes I should take, this post was the most helpful resource I found! I am a neuroscience major, I am also interested in the technological side of it. Do you know if there are computational neuroscience classes or a capstone option that is related to computational neuroscience? permalink embed save report reply about blog about advertising careers help site rules Reddit help center reddiquette mod guidelines contact us apps & tools Reddit for iPhone Reddit for Android mobile website <3 reddit premium Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy . © 2026 reddit inc. All rights reserved. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc. Advertise - college / university π Rendered by PID 352523 on reddit-service-r2-loggedout-56678c4d98-gd5f2 at 2026-06-10 03:16:14.421093+00:00 running 0b63327 country code: US.